Then Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people: “Pay attention to all the commandments I am giving you today. 
When you cross the Jordan River to the land the Lord your God is giving you, you must erect great stones and cover them with plaster. 
Then you must inscribe on them all the words of this law when you cross over, so that you may enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey just as the Lord, the God of your ancestors, said to you.
So when you cross the Jordan you must erect on Mount Ebal these stones about which I am commanding you today, and you must cover them with plaster. 
Then you must build an altar there to the Lord your God, an altar of stones—do not use an iron tool on them.
You must build the altar of the Lord your God with whole stones and offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. 
Also you must offer fellowship offerings and eat them there, rejoicing before the Lord your God. 
You must inscribe on the stones all the words of this law, making them clear.” 
Then Moses and the Levitical priests spoke to all Israel: “Be quiet and pay attention, Israel. Today you have become the people of the Lord your God. 
You must obey him and keep his commandments and statutes that I am giving you today.” 
Moreover, Moses commanded the people that day: 
“The following tribes must stand to bless the people on Mount Gerizim when you cross the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin. 
And these other tribes must stand for the curse on Mount Ebal: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 
“The Levites will call out to every Israelite with a loud voice: 
‘Cursed is the one who makes a carved or metal image—something abhorrent to the Lord, the work of the craftsman—and sets it up in a secret place.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who disrespects his father and mother.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who moves his neighbor’s boundary marker.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who misleads a blind person on the road.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who perverts justice for the resident foreigner, the orphan, and the widow.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who goes to bed with his father’s former wife, for he dishonors his father.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who commits bestiality.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who goes to bed with his sister, the daughter of either his father or mother.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who goes to bed with his mother-in-law.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who kills his neighbor in private.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who takes a bribe to kill an innocent person.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is the one who refuses to keep the words of this law.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’