The tribal leaders of the Levites went before Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the Israelite tribal leaders 
in Shiloh in the land of Canaan and said, “The Lord told Moses to assign us cities in which to live along with the grazing areas for our cattle.” 
So the Israelites assigned these cities and their grazing areas to the Levites from their own holdings, as the Lord had instructed.
The first lot belonged to the Kohathite clans. The Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest were allotted 13 cities from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin. 
The rest of Kohath’s descendants were allotted 10 cities from the clans of the tribe of Ephraim, and from the tribe of Dan and the half-tribe of Manasseh. 
Gershon’s descendants were allotted 13 cities from the clans of the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribes of Asher and Naphtali and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. 
Merari’s descendants by their clans were allotted 12 cities from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun. 
So the Israelites assigned to the Levites by lot these cities and their grazing areas, as the Lord had instructed Moses. 
They assigned from the tribes of Judah and Simeon the cities listed below.
(They were assigned to the Kohathite clans of the Levites who were descendants of Aaron, for the first lot fell to them.) 
They assigned them Kiriath Arba (Arba was the father of Anak), that is, Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, along with its surrounding grazing areas. 
(Now the city’s fields and surrounding towns they had assigned to Caleb son of Jephunneh as his property.) 
So to the descendants of Aaron the priest they assigned Hebron (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Libnah, 
Jattir, Eshtemoa, 
Holon, Debir, 
Ain, Juttah, and Beth Shemesh, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of nine cities taken from these two tribes. 
From the tribe of Benjamin they assigned Gibeon, Geba, 
Anathoth, and Almon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. 
The priests descended from Aaron received 13 cities and their grazing areas. 
The rest of the Kohathite clans of the Levites were allotted cities from the tribe of Ephraim. 
They assigned them Shechem (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer, 
Kibzaim, and Beth Horon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. 
From the tribe of Dan they assigned Eltekeh, Gibbethon, 
Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. 
From the half-tribe of Manasseh they assigned Taanach and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of two cities. 
The rest of the Kohathite clans received 10 cities and their grazing areas. 
They assigned to the Gershonite clans of the Levites the following cities: from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) and Beeshtarah, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of two cities; 
from the tribe of Issachar: Kishon, Daberath, 
Jarmuth, and En Gannim, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; 
from the tribe of Asher: Mishal, Abdon, 
Helkath, and Rehob, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; 
from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Hammoth Dor, and Kartan, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of three cities. 
The Gershonite clans received 13 cities and their grazing areas. 
They assigned to the Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) the following cities: from the tribe of Zebulun: Jokneam, Kartah, 
Dimnah, and Nahalal, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; 
 from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer, Jahaz, 
Kedemoth, and Mephaath, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities; 
from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Mahanaim, 
Heshbon, and Jazer, along with the grazing areas of each—a total of four cities. 
The Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) were allotted 12 cities. 
The Levites received within the land owned by the Israelites 48 cities in all and their grazing areas. 
Each of these cities had grazing areas around it; they were alike in this regard. 
So the Lord gave Israel all the land he had solemnly promised to their ancestors, and they conquered it and lived in it.
The Lord made them secure, in fulfillment of all he had solemnly promised their ancestors. None of their enemies could resist them. The Lord handed all their enemies over to them.
Not one of the Lord’s faithful promises to the family of Israel was left unfulfilled; every one was realized. 