Benjamin was the father of Bela, his firstborn; Ashbel was born second, Aharah third, 
Nohah fourth, and Rapha fifth. 
Bela’s sons were Addar, Gera, Abihud, 
Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah, 
Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram. 
These were the descendants of Ehud who were leaders of the families living in Geba who were forced to move to Manahath: 
Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, who moved them. Gera was the father of Uzzah and Ahihud. 
Shaharaim fathered sons in Moab after he divorced his wives Hushim and Baara. 
By his wife Hodesh he fathered Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malkam, 
Jeuz, Sakia, and Mirmah. These were his sons; they were family leaders. 
By Hushim he fathered Abitub and Elpaal. 
The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shemed (who built Ono and Lod, as well as its surrounding towns), 
Beriah, and Shema. They were leaders of the families living in Aijalon and chased out the inhabitants of Gath. 
Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth, 
Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, 
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were the sons of Beriah. 
Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, 
Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal. 
Jakim, Zikri, Zabdi, 
Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, 
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei. 
Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, 
Abdon, Zikri, Hanan, 
Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah, 
Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak. 
Shamsherai, Shechariah, Athaliah, 
Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zikri were the sons of Jeroham. 
These were the family leaders listed in the genealogical records; they lived in Jerusalem. 
The father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon; his wife’s name was Maacah. 
His firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab, 
Gedor, Ahio, Zeker, and Mikloth.
Mikloth was the father of Shimeah. They also lived near their relatives in Jerusalem. 
Ner was the father of Kish, and Kish was the father of Saul. Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
The son of Jonathan: Meribbaal. Meribbaal was the father of Micah. 
The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz. 
Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri was the father of Moza, 
and Moza was the father of Binea. His son was Raphah, whose son was Eleasah, whose son was Azel. 
Azel had six sons: Azrikam his firstborn, followed by Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel. 
The sons of his brother Eshek:Ulam was his firstborn, Jeush second, and Eliphelet third. 
The sons of Ulam were warriors who were adept archers. They had many sons and grandsons, a total of 150.All these were the descendants of Benjamin. 