Masters, treat your slaves with justice and fairness, because you know that you also have a master in heaven.
Be devoted to prayer, keeping alert in it with thanksgiving. 
At the same time pray for us too, that God may open a door for the message so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ, for which I am in chains. 
Pray that I may make it known as I should. 
Conduct yourselves with wisdom toward outsiders, making the most of the opportunities. 
Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you should answer everyone. 
Tychicus, a dear brother, faithful minister, and fellow slave in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. 
I sent him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are doing and that he may encourage your hearts. 
I sent him with Onesimus, the faithful and dear brother, who is one of you. They will tell you about everything here. 
Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, sends you greetings, as does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you received instructions; if he comes to you, welcome him). 
And Jesus who is called Justus also sends greetings. In terms of Jewish converts, these are the only fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me. 
Epaphras, who is one of you and a slave of Christ, greets you. He is always struggling in prayer on your behalf, so that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God. 
For I can testify that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and Hierapolis. 
Our dear friend Luke the physician and Demas greet you. 
Give my greetings to the brothers and sisters who are in Laodicea and to Nympha and the church that meets in her house. 
And after you have read this letter, have it read to the church of Laodicea. In turn, read the letter from Laodicea as well.
And tell Archippus, “See to it that you complete the ministry you received in the Lord.” 
I, Paul, write this greeting by my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. 