Wine is a mocker and strong drink is a brawler; whoever goes astray by them is not wise. 
The king’s terrifying anger is like the roar of a lion; whoever provokes him sins against himself. 
It is an honor for a person to cease from strife, but every fool quarrels. 
The sluggard will not plow during the planting season, so at harvest time he asks for grain but has nothing. 
Counsel in a person’s heart is like deep water, but an understanding person draws it out.
Many people profess their loyalty, but a faithful person—who can find? 
The righteous person behaves in integrity; blessed are his children after him.
A king sitting on the throne to judge separates out all evil with his eyes. 
Who can say, “I have kept my heart clean; I am pure from my sin”? 
Diverse weights and diverse measures— the Lord abhors both of them.
Even a young man is known by his actions, whether his activity is pure and whether it is right. 
The ear that hears and the eye that sees— the Lord has made them both. 
Do not love sleep, lest you become impoverished; open your eyes so that you might be satisfied with food. 
“It’s worthless! It’s worthless!” says the buyer, but when he goes on his way, he boasts. 
There is gold and an abundance of rubies, but words of knowledge are like a precious jewel. 
Take a man’s garment when he has given security for a stranger, and hold him in pledge on behalf of strangers. 
Bread gained by deceit tastes sweet to a person, but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel. 
Plans are established by counsel, so make war with guidance. 
The one who goes about gossiping reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with someone who is always opening his mouth. 
The one who curses his father and his mother, his lamp will be extinguished in the blackest darkness. 
An inheritance gained easily in the beginning will not be blessed in the end. 
Do not say, “I will pay back evil!” Wait for the Lord, so that he may vindicate you.
The Lord abhors differing weights, and dishonest scales are wicked.
The steps of a person are ordained by the Lord— so how can anyone understand his own way? 
It is a snare for a person to rashly cry, “Holy!” and only afterward to consider what he has vowed. 
A wise king separates out the wicked; he turns the threshing wheel over them.
The human spirit is like the lamp of the Lord, searching all his innermost parts. 
Loyal love and truth preserve a king, and his throne is upheld by loyal love. 
The glory of young men is their strength, and the splendor of old men is gray hair. 
Beatings and wounds cleanse away evil, and floggings cleanse the innermost being. 