The wicked person fled, though no one was pursuing, but the righteous person can be as confident as a lion. 
When a country is rebellious it has many princes, but by someone who is discerning and knowledgeable order is maintained. 
A poor person who oppresses the weak is like a driving rain without food. 
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law contend with them.
Evil people do not understand justice, but those who seek the Lord understand it all. 
A poor person who walks in his integrity is better than one who is perverse in his ways even though he is rich. 
The one who keeps the law is a discerning child, but a companion of gluttons brings shame to his parents. 
The one who increases his wealth by increasing interest gathers it for someone who is gracious to the needy. 
The one who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination. 
The one who leads the upright astray in an evil way will himself fall into his own pit, but the blameless will inherit what is good. 
A rich person is wise in his own opinion, but a discerning poor person can evaluate him properly. 
When the righteous rejoice, great is the glory, but when the wicked rise to power, people are sought out. 
The one who covers his transgressions will not prosper, but whoever confesses them and forsakes them will find mercy. 
Blessed is the one who is always cautious, but whoever hardens his heart will fall into evil. 
Like a roaring lion or a roving bear, so is a wicked ruler over a poor people. 
The prince who is a great oppressor lacks wisdom, but the one who hates unjust gain will prolong his days. 
The one who is tormented by the murder of another will flee to the pit; let no one support him.
The one who walks blamelessly will be delivered, but whoever is perverse in his ways will fall at once. 
The one who works his land will be satisfied with food, but whoever chases daydreams will have his fill of poverty. 
A faithful person will have an abundance of blessings, but the one who hastens to gain riches will not go unpunished. 
To show partiality is terrible, for a person will transgress over the smallest piece of bread. 
The stingy person hastens after riches and does not know that poverty will overtake him.
The one who reproves another will in the end find more favor than the one who flatters with the tongue. 
The one who robs his father and mother and says, “There is no transgression,” is a companion to the one who destroys. 
The greedy person stirs up dissension, but the one who trusts in the Lord will prosper. 
The one who trusts in his own heart is a fool, but the one who walks in wisdom will escape. 
The one who gives to the poor will not lack, but whoever shuts his eyes to them will receive many curses. 
When the wicked gain control, people hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase. 