Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool. 
Like a fluttering bird or like a flying swallow, so a curse without cause does not come to rest.
A whip for the horse and a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the backs of fools! 
Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you yourself also be like him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own opinion.
Like cutting off the feet or drinking violence, so is sending a message by the hand of a fool. 
Like legs dangle uselessly from the lame, so a proverb dangles in the mouth of fools. 
Like tying a stone in a sling, so is giving honor to a fool. 
Like a thorn has gone up into the hand of a drunkard, so a proverb has gone up into the mouth of a fool. 
Like an archer who wounds at random, so is the one who hires a fool or hires any passerby. 
Like a dog that returns to its vomit, so a fool repeats his folly. 
You have seen a man wise in his own opinion— there is more hope for a fool than for him.
The sluggard has said, “There is a lion in the road! A lion in the streets!” 
Like a door that turns on its hinges, so a sluggard turns on his bed. 
The sluggard has plunged his hand in the dish; he is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth. 
The sluggard is wiser in his own opinion than seven people who respond with good sense. 
Like one who grabs a wild dog by the ears, so is the person passing by who becomes furious over a quarrel not his own.
Like a madman who shoots firebrands and deadly arrows, 
so is a person who has deceived his neighbor, and said, “Was I not only joking?” 
Where there is no wood, a fire goes out, and where there is no gossip, contention ceases. 
Like charcoal is to burning coals, and wood to fire, so is a contentious person to kindle strife. 
The words of a gossip are like choice morsels; and they have gone down into a person’s innermost being. 
Like a coating of glaze over earthenware are fervent lips with an evil heart. 
The one who hates others disguises it with his lips, but he stores up deceit within him.
When he speaks graciously, do not believe him, for there are seven abominations within him.
Though his hatred may be concealed by deceit, his evil will be uncovered in the assembly. 
The one who digs a pit will fall into it; the one who rolls a stone—it will come back on him.
A lying tongue hates those crushed by it, and a flattering mouth works ruin. 