Does not wisdom call out? Does not understanding raise her voice? 
At the top of the prominent places along the way, at the intersection of the paths she has taken her stand; 
beside the gates opening into the city, at the entrance of the doorways she cries out: 
“To you, O people, I call out, and my voice calls to all mankind. 
You who are naive, discern wisdom! And you fools, understand discernment! 
Listen, for I will speak excellent things, and my lips will utter what is right. 
For my mouth speaks truth, and my lips hate wickedness. 
All the words of my mouth are righteous; there is nothing in them twisted or crooked. 
All of them are clear to the discerning and upright to those who find knowledge. 
Receive my instruction rather than silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold. 
For wisdom is better than rubies, and desirable things cannot be compared to her.
“I, wisdom, have dwelt with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion. 
The fear of the Lord is to hate evil; I hate arrogant pride and the evil way and perverse utterances.
Counsel and sound wisdom belong to me; I possess understanding and might. 
By me, kings reign, and by me, potentates decree righteousness; 
by me, princes rule, as well as nobles and all righteous judges. 
I will love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently will find me.
Riches and honor are with me, long-lasting wealth and righteousness. 
My fruit is better than the purest gold, and my harvest is better than choice silver. 
I walk in the path of righteousness, in the pathway of justice, 
that I may cause those who love me to inherit wealth, and that I may fill their treasuries. 
The Lord created me as the beginning of his works, before his deeds of long ago.
From eternity I have been fashioned, from the beginning, from before the world existed.
When there were no deep oceans I was born, when there were no springs overflowing with water; 
before the mountains were set in place— before the hills—I was born, 
before he made the earth and its fields, or the top soil of the world. 
When he established the heavens, I was there; when he marked out the horizon over the face of the deep, 
when he established the clouds above, when he secured the fountains of the deep, 
when he gave the sea his decree that the waters should not pass over his command, when he marked out the foundations of the earth, 
then I was beside him as a master craftsman, and I was his delight day by day, rejoicing before him at all times, 
rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth, and delighting in its people. 
“So now, children, listen to me; blessed are those who keep my ways. 
Listen to my instruction so that you may be wise, and do not neglect it.
Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching at my doors day by day, waiting beside my doorway. 
For the one who finds me has found life and received favor from the Lord. 
But the one who misses me brings harm to himself; all who hate me love death.”