A good name is to be chosen rather than great wealth, good favor more than silver or gold. 
The rich and the poor are met together; the Lord is the Creator of them both.
A shrewd person saw danger and hid himself, but the naive passed on by and paid for it.
The reward for humility and fearing the Lord is riches and honor and life. 
Thorns and snares are in the path of the perverse, but the one who guards himself keeps far from them. 
Train a child in the way that he should go, and when he is old he will not turn from it.
The rich rule over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender. 
The one who sows iniquity will reap trouble, and the rod of his fury will end. 
A generous person will be blessed, for he has given some of his food to the poor. 
Drive out the scorner and contention will leave; strife and insults will cease. 
The one who loves a pure heart and whose speech is gracious—the king will be his friend. 
The eyes of the Lord watched over a cause and subverted the words of the treacherous person. 
The sluggard has said, “There is a lion outside! I will be killed in the middle of the streets!” 
The mouth of an adulteress is like a deep pit; the one against whom the Lord is angry will fall into it.
Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him. 
The one who oppresses the poor to increase his own gain and the one who gives to the rich—both end up only in poverty. 
Incline your ear and listen to the words of the wise, and apply your mind to my instruction. 
For it is pleasing if you keep these sayings within you, and they are ready on your lips. 
So that your confidence may be in the Lord, I hereby make them known to you today—even you. 
Have I not written thirty sayings for you, sayings of counsel and knowledge, 
to show you true and reliable words, so that you may give accurate answers to those who sent you?
Do not exploit a poor person because he is poor and do not crush the needy in court, 
for the Lord will plead their case and will rob the life of those who are robbing them. 
Do not make friends with an angry person, and do not associate with a wrathful person, 
lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare. 
Do not be one who strikes hands in pledge or who puts up security for debts. 
If you do not have enough to pay, your bed will be taken right out from under you!
Do not move an ancient boundary stone that was put in place by your ancestors. 
You have seen a person skilled in his work— he will take his position before kings; he will not take his position before obscure people.