Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is perverse in his speech and is a fool. 
It is dangerous to have zeal without knowledge, and the one who acts hastily makes poor choices.
A person’s folly subverts his way, and his heart rages against the Lord. 
Wealth adds many friends, but a poor person is separated from his friend. 
A false witness will not go unpunished, and the one who spouts out lies will not escape punishment.
Many people entreat the favor of a generous person, and everyone is the friend of the person who gives gifts. 
All the relatives of a poor person hate him; how much more do his friends avoid him— one who chases words, which are nothing.
The one who acquires understanding loves himself; the one who preserves understanding will prosper. 
A false witness will not go unpunished, and the one who spouts out lies will perish. 
Luxury is not appropriate for a fool; how much less for a servant to rule over princes! 
A person’s wisdom has made him slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense. 
A king’s wrath is like the roar of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass. 
A foolish child is the ruin of his father, and a contentious wife is like a constant dripping. 
A house and wealth are inherited from parents, but a prudent wife is from the Lord. 
Laziness brings on a deep sleep, and the idle person will go hungry. 
The one who obeys commandments guards his life; the one who despises his ways will die. 
The one who is gracious to the poor lends to the Lord, and the Lord will repay him for his good deed. 
Discipline your child, for there is hope, but do not set your heart on causing his death. 
A person with great anger bears the penalty, but if you deliver him from it once, you will have to do it again. 
Listen to advice and receive discipline, that you may become wise by the end of your life.
There are many plans in a person’s mind, but it is the counsel of the Lord that will stand. 
What is desirable for a person is to show loyal love, and a poor person is better than a liar. 
Fearing the Lord leads to life, and one who does so will live satisfied; he will not be afflicted by calamity. 
The sluggard has plunged his hand into the dish, and he will not even bring it back to his mouth! 
Flog a scorner, and as a result the simpleton will learn prudence; correct a discerning person, and as a result he will understand knowledge. 
The one who robs his father and chases away his mother is a son who brings shame and disgrace. 
If you stop listening to instruction, my child, you will stray from the words of knowledge. 
A crooked witness scorns justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity. 
Penalties have been prepared for scorners, and floggings for the backs of fools. 