The one who loves discipline loves knowledge, but the one who hates reproof is stupid.
A good person obtains favor from the Lord, but the Lord condemns a person with wicked schemes. 
No one can be established through wickedness, but a righteous root cannot be moved. 
A noble wife is the crown of her husband, but the wife who acts shamefully is like rottenness in his bones. 
The plans of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful. 
The words of the wicked lie in wait to shed innocent blood, but the words of the upright will deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown and perish, but the righteous household will stand. 
A person will be praised in accordance with his wisdom, but the one with a bewildered mind will be despised. 
Better is a person of humble standing who works for himself, than one who pretends to be somebody important yet has no food. 
A righteous person cares for the life of his animal, but even the most compassionate acts of the wicked are cruel. 
The one who works his field will have plenty of food, but whoever chases daydreams lacks sense.
The wicked person has desired the stronghold of the wicked, but the root of the righteous will yield fruit.
The evil person is ensnared by the transgression of his speech, but the righteous person escapes out of trouble. 
A person will be satisfied with good from the fruit of his words, and the work of his hands will be rendered to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own opinion, but the one who listens to advice is wise. 
A fool’s annoyance is known at once, but the prudent conceals dishonor.
The faithful witness tells what is right, but a false witness speaks deceit. 
Speaking recklessly is like the thrusts of a sword, but the words of the wise bring healing. 
The one who tells the truth will endure forever, but the one who lies will last only for a moment. 
Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but those who promote peace have joy. 
No harm will be directed at the righteous, but the wicked are filled with calamity. 
The Lord abhors a person who lies, but those who deal truthfully are his delight. 
The shrewd person conceals knowledge, but foolish people proclaim folly. 
The diligent person will rule, but the slothful will be put to forced labor.
Anxiety in a person’s heart weighs him down, but an encouraging word brings him joy. 
The righteous person is cautious in his friendship, but the way of the wicked leads them astray. 
The lazy person does not roast his prey, but personal possessions are precious to the diligent. 
In the path of righteousness there is life, but another path leads to death. 