The one who stiffens his neck after numerous rebukes will suddenly be destroyed without remedy. 
When the righteous become numerous, the people rejoice; when the wicked rule, the people groan. 
The man who loves wisdom brings joy to his father, but whoever associates with prostitutes wastes his wealth. 
A king brings stability to a land by justice, but one who exacts tribute tears it down.
The one who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his steps. 
In the transgression of an evil person there is a snare, but a righteous person can sing and rejoice. 
The righteous person cares for the legal rights of the poor; the wicked person does not understand such knowledge. 
Scornful people inflame a city, but those who are wise turn away wrath. 
When a wise person goes to court with a foolish person, there is no peace whether he is angry or laughs. 
Bloodthirsty people hate someone with integrity; as for the upright, they seek his life. 
A fool lets fly with all his temper, but a wise person keeps it back. 
If a ruler listens to lies, all his ministers will be wicked. 
The poor person and the oppressor have this in common: The Lord gives light to the eyes of them both. 
If a king judges the poor in truth, his throne will be established forever. 
A rod and reproof impart wisdom, but a child who is unrestrained brings shame to his mother. 
When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will see their downfall. 
Discipline your child, and he will give you rest; he will bring you happiness. 
When there is no prophetic vision the people cast off restraint, but the one who keeps the law, blessed is he!
A servant cannot be corrected by words, for although he understands, there is no answer. 
You have seen someone who is hasty in his words— there is more hope for a fool than for him.
If someone pampers his servant from youth, he will be a weakling in the end. 
An angry person stirs up dissension, and a wrathful person is abounding in transgression. 
A person’s pride will bring him low, but one who has a lowly spirit will gain honor. 
Whoever shares with a thief is his own enemy; he hears the oath to testify, but does not talk. 
The fear of people becomes a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord will be set on high. 
Many people seek the face of a ruler, but it is from the Lord that one receives justice. 
An unjust person is an abomination to the righteous, and the one who lives an upright life is an abomination to the wicked. 