So these three men refused to answer Job further, because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
Then Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, became very angry. He was angry with Job for justifying himself rather than God. 
With Job’s three friends he was also angry because they could not find an answer, and so declared Job guilty. 
Now Elihu had waited before speaking to Job because the others were older than he was.
But when Elihu saw that the three men had no further reply, he became very angry. 
So Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite spoke up: “I am young, but you are elderly; that is why I was fearful and afraid to explain to you what I know. 
I said to myself, ‘Age should speak, and length of years should make wisdom known.’ 
But it is a spirit in people, the breath of the Almighty, that makes them understand. 
It is not the aged who are wise, nor old men who understand what is right. 
Therefore I say, ‘Listen to me. I, even I, will explain what I know.’ 
Look, I waited for you to speak; I listened closely to your wise thoughts, while you were searching for words. 
Now I was paying you close attention, yet there was no one proving Job wrong, not one of you was answering his statements. 
So do not say, ‘We have found wisdom. God will refute him, not man.’ 
Job has not directed his words to me, and so I will not reply to him with your arguments. 
“They are dismayed and cannot answer anymore; they have nothing left to say. 
And I have waited. But because they do not speak, because they stand there and answer no more, 
I too will answer my part; I too will explain what I know. 
For I am full of words, and the spirit within me constrains me.
Inside I am like wine that has no outlet, like new wineskins ready to burst! 
I will speak, so that I may find relief; I will open my lips, so that I may answer. 
I will not show partiality to any person, nor will I confer a title on anyone. 
For I do not know how to give honorary titles; if I did, my Creator would quickly do away with me.