Elihu said further:
“Be patient with me a little longer, and I will instruct you, for I still have words to speak on God’s behalf.
With my knowledge I will speak comprehensively, and to my Creator I will ascribe righteousness. 
For in truth, my words are not false; it is one complete in knowledge who is with you.
Indeed, God is mighty, and he does not despise people; he is mighty, and firm in his intent. 
He does not allow the wicked to live, but he gives justice to the poor. 
He does not take his eyes off the righteous; but with kings on the throne he seats the righteous and exalts them forever. 
But if they are bound in chains and held captive by the cords of affliction, 
then he reveals to them what they have done and their transgressions, that they were behaving proudly.
And he reveals this for correction and says that they must turn from evil. 
If they obey and serve him, they live out their days in prosperity and their years in pleasantness. 
But if they refuse to listen, they pass over the river of death and expire without knowledge. 
The godless at heart nourish anger; they do not cry out even when he binds them.
They die in their youth, and their life ends among the male cultic prostitutes. 
He delivers the afflicted by their afflictions; he reveals himself to them by their suffering. 
And surely, he drew you from the mouth of distress, to a wide place, unrestricted, and to the comfort of your table filled with rich food. 
But now you are preoccupied with the judgment due the wicked; judgment and justice take hold of you.
Be careful that no one entices you with riches; do not let a large bribe turn you aside. 
Would your wealth sustain you, so that you would not be in distress, even all your mighty efforts? 
Do not long for the cover of night to drag people away from their homes. 
Take heed; do not turn to evil, for because of this you have been tested by affliction. 
Indeed, God is exalted in his power; who is a teacher like him? 
Who has prescribed his ways for him? Or said to him, ‘You have done what is wicked’? 
Remember to extol his work, which people have praised in song.
All humanity has seen it; people gaze on it from afar. 
“Yes, God is great—beyond our knowledge! The number of his years is unsearchable. 
He draws up drops of water; they distill the rain into its mist, 
which the clouds pour down and shower on humankind abundantly. 
Who can understand the spreading of the clouds, the thunderings of his pavilion? 
See how he scattered his lightning about him; he has covered the depths of the sea. 
It is by these that he judges the nations and supplies food in abundance. 
With his hands he covers the lightning and directs it against its target. 
 His thunder announces the coming storm, the cattle also, concerning the storm’s approach.