“Call now! Is there anyone who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn? 
For wrath kills the foolish person, and anger slays the silly one.
I myself have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his place of residence. 
His children are far from safety, and they are crushed at the place where judgment is rendered, nor is there anyone to deliver them.
The hungry eat up his harvest, and take it even from behind the thorns, and the thirsty pant for their wealth. 
For evil does not come up from the dust, nor does trouble spring up from the ground, 
but people are born to trouble, as surely as the sparks fly upward.
“But as for me, I would seek God, and to God I would set forth my case. 
He does great and unsearchable things, marvelous things without number; 
he gives rain on the earth, and sends water on the fields; 
he sets the lowly on high, that those who mourn are raised to safety. 
He frustrates the plans of the crafty so that their hands cannot accomplish what they had planned. 
He catches the wise in their own craftiness, and the counsel of the cunning is brought to a quick end.
They meet with darkness in the daytime, and grope about in the noontime as if it were night. 
So he saves from the sword that comes from their mouth, even the poor from the hand of the powerful. 
Thus the poor have hope, and iniquity shuts its mouth. 
“Therefore, blessed is the man whom God corrects, so do not despise the discipline of the Almighty. 
For he wounds, but he also bandages; he strikes, but his hands also heal. 
He will deliver you from six calamities; yes, in seven no evil will touch you.
In time of famine he will redeem you from death, and in time of war from the power of the sword. 
You will be protected from malicious gossip and will not be afraid of the destruction when it comes. 
You will laugh at destruction and famine and need not be afraid of the beasts of the earth. 
For you will have a pact with the stones of the field, and the wild animals will be at peace with you. 
And you will know that your home will be secure, and when you inspect your domains, you will not be missing anything.
You will also know that your children will be numerous and your descendants like the grass of the earth. 
You will come to your grave in a full age, As stacks of grain are harvested in their season. 
Look, we have investigated this, so it is true. Hear it, and apply it for your own good.”