For the music director, according to the tune of “Lilies”; by the Korahites, a well-written poem, a love song. My heart is stirred by a beautiful song. I say, “I have composed this special song for the king; my tongue is as skilled as the stylus of an experienced scribe.” 
You are the most handsome of all men. You speak in an impressive and fitting manner. For this reason God grants you continual blessings. 
Strap your sword to your thigh, O warrior. Appear in your majestic splendor. 
Appear in your majesty and be victorious. Ride forth for the sake of what is right, on behalf of justice. Then your right hand will accomplish mighty acts. 
Your arrows are sharp and penetrate the hearts of the king’s enemies. Nations fall at your feet.
Your throne, O God, is permanent. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of justice. 
You love justice and hate evil. For this reason God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy, elevating you above your companions. 
All your garments are perfumed with myrrh, aloes, and cassia. From the luxurious palaces comes the music of stringed instruments that makes you happy. 
Princesses are among your honored women. Your bride stands at your right hand, wearing jewelry made with gold from Ophir. 
Listen, O princess. Observe and pay attention! Forget your homeland and your family. 
Then the king will be attracted by your beauty. After all, he is your master. Submit to him.
Rich people from Tyre will seek your favor by bringing a gift. 
The princess looks absolutely magnificent, decked out in pearls and clothed in a brocade trimmed with gold. 
In embroidered robes she is escorted to the king. Her attendants, the maidens of honor who follow her, are led before you.
They are bubbling with joy as they walk in procession and enter the royal palace. 
Your sons will carry on the dynasty of your ancestors; you will make them princes throughout the land. 
I will proclaim your greatness through the coming years, then the nations will praise you forever. 