For the music director, according to the alumoth-labben style; a psalm of David. I will thank the Lord with all my heart! I will tell about all your amazing deeds.
I will be happy and rejoice in you. I will sing praises to you, O Most High.
When my enemies turn back, they trip and are defeated before you.
For you defended my just cause; from your throne you pronounced a just decision. 
You terrified the nations with your battle cry. You destroyed the wicked; you permanently wiped out all memory of them. 
The enemy’s cities have been reduced to permanent ruins. You destroyed their cities; all memory of the enemies has perished. 
But the Lord rules forever; he reigns in a just manner. 
He judges the world fairly; he makes just legal decisions for the nations. 
Consequently the Lord provides safety for the oppressed; he provides safety in times of trouble. 
Your loyal followers trust in you, for you, Lord, do not abandon those who seek your help.
Sing praises to the Lord, who rules in Zion. Tell the nations what he has done. 
For the one who takes revenge against murderers took notice of the oppressed; he did not overlook their cry for help
when they prayed: “Have mercy on me, Lord! See how I am oppressed by those who hate me, O one who can snatch me away from the gates of death! 
Then I will tell about all your praiseworthy acts; in the gates of Daughter Zion I will rejoice because of your deliverance.” 
The nations fell into the pit they had made; their feet were caught in the net they had hidden. 
The Lord revealed himself; he accomplished justice. The wicked were ensnared by their own actions. (Higgaion. Selah) 
The wicked are turned back and sent to Sheol; this is the destiny of all the nations that ignore God, 
for the needy are not permanently ignored, the hopes of the oppressed are not forever dashed. 
Rise up, Lord! Don’t let men be defiant. May the nations be judged in your presence. 
Terrify them, Lord. Let the nations know they are mere mortals. (Selah)