For the music director, to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a well-written song by David. Listen, O God, to my prayer. Do not ignore my appeal for mercy. 
Pay attention to me and answer me. I am so upset and distressed, I am beside myself, 
because of what the enemy says, and because of how the wicked pressure me, for they hurl trouble down upon me and angrily attack me.
My heart beats violently within me; the horrors of death overcome me.
Fear and panic overpower me; terror overwhelms me.
I say, “I wish I had wings like a dove. I would fly away and settle in a safe place.
Look, I will escape to a distant place; I will stay in the wilderness. (Selah)
I will hurry off to a place that is safe from the strong wind and the gale.” 
Confuse them, O Lord. Frustrate their plans. For I see violence and conflict in the city. 
Day and night they walk around on its walls, while wickedness and destruction are within it.
Disaster is within it; violence and deceit do not depart from its public square. 
Indeed, it is not an enemy who insults me, or else I could bear it; it is not one who hates me who arrogantly taunts me, or else I could hide from him.
But it is you, a man like me, my close friend in whom I confided. 
We would share personal thoughts with each other; in God’s temple we would walk together among the crowd. 
May death destroy them. May they go down alive into Sheol. For evil is in their dwelling place and in their midst. 
As for me, I will call out to God, and the Lord will deliver me.
During the evening, morning, and noontime I will lament and moan, and he will hear me. 
He will rescue me and protect me from those who attack me, even though they greatly outnumber me. 
God, the one who has reigned as king from long ago, will hear and humiliate them. (Selah) They refuse to change, and do not fear God. 
He attacks his friends; he breaks his solemn promises to them.
His words are as smooth as butter, but he harbors animosity in his heart. His words seem softer than oil, but they are really like sharp swords. 
Throw your burden upon the Lord, and he will sustain you. He will never allow the godly to be shaken. 
But you, O God, will bring them down to the deep Pit. Violent and deceitful people will not live even half a normal life-span. But as for me, I trust in you. 