For the music director, a psalm of David. O God whom I praise, do not ignore me.
For they say cruel and deceptive things to me; they lie to me. 
They surround me and say hateful things; they attack me for no reason. 
They repay my love with accusations, but I continue to pray. 
They repay me evil for good and hate for love. 
 Appoint an evil man to testify against him. May an accuser stand at his right side. 
When he is judged, he will be found guilty. Then his prayer will be regarded as sinful.
May his days be few. May another take his job. 
May his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. 
May his children roam around begging, asking for handouts as they leave their ruined home.
May the creditor seize all he owns. May strangers loot his property. 
May no one show him kindness. May no one have compassion on his fatherless children.
May his descendants be cut off. May the memory of them be wiped out by the time the next generation arrives. 
May his ancestors’ sins be remembered by the Lord. May his mother’s sin not be forgotten. 
May the Lord be constantly aware of them and cut off the memory of his children from the earth. 
For he never bothered to show kindness; he harassed the oppressed and needy and killed the disheartened. 
He loved to curse others, so those curses have come upon him. He had no desire to bless anyone, so he has experienced no blessings. 
He made cursing a way of life, so curses poured into his stomach like water and seeped into his bones like oil. 
May a curse attach itself to him, like a garment one puts on, or a belt one wears continually. 
May the Lord repay my accusers in this way, those who say evil things about me. 
O Sovereign Lord, intervene on my behalf for the sake of your reputation. Because your loyal love is good, deliver me.
For I am oppressed and needy, and my heart beats violently within me.
I am fading away like a shadow at the end of the day; I am shaken off like a locust. 
I am so starved my knees shake; I have turned into skin and bones. 
I am disdained by them. When they see me, they shake their heads. 
Help me, O Lord my God. Because you are faithful to me, deliver me.
Then they will realize this is your work and that you, Lord, have accomplished it.
They curse, but you will bless. When they attack, they will be humiliated, but your servant will rejoice. 
My accusers will be covered with shame and draped in humiliation as if it were a robe. 
I will thank the Lord profusely. In the middle of a crowd I will praise him,
because he stands at the right hand of the needy to deliver him from those who threaten his life. 