For the music director, a psalm of David. O Lord, you examine me and know me. 
You know when I sit down and when I get up; even from far away you understand my motives. 
You carefully observe me when I travel or when I lie down to rest; you are aware of everything I do.
Certainly my tongue does not frame a word without you, O Lord, being thoroughly aware of it.
You squeeze me in from behind and in front; you place your hand on me.
Your knowledge is beyond my comprehension; it is so far beyond me, I am unable to fathom it.
Where can I go to escape your Spirit? Where can I flee to escape your presence? 
If I were to ascend to heaven, you would be there. If I were to sprawl out in Sheol, there you would be.
If I were to fly away on the wings of the dawn and settle down on the other side of the sea, 
even there your hand would guide me, your right hand would grab hold of me.
If I were to say, “Certainly the darkness will cover me, and the light will turn to night all around me,”
even the darkness is not too dark for you to see, and the night is as bright as day; darkness and light are the same to you.
Certainly you made my mind and heart; you wove me together in my mother’s womb. 
I will give you thanks because your deeds are awesome and amazing. You knew me thoroughly; 
my bones were not hidden from you, when I was made in secret and sewed together in the depths of the earth. 
Your eyes saw me when I was inside the womb. All the days ordained for me were recorded in your scroll before one of them came into existence.
How difficult it is for me to fathom your thoughts about me, O God! How vast is their sum total.
If I tried to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand. Even if I finished counting them, I would still have to contend with you.
If only you would kill the wicked, O God! Get away from me, you violent men! 
They rebel against you and act deceitfully; your enemies lie. 
O Lord, do I not hate those who hate you and despise those who oppose you?
I absolutely hate them; they have become my enemies. 
Examine me, O God, and probe my thoughts. Test me, and know my concerns. 
See if there is any idolatrous way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way. 