A well-written song by Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing continually about the Lord’s faithful deeds; to future generations I will proclaim your faithfulness. 
For I say, “Loyal love is permanently established; in the skies you set up your faithfulness.” 
The Lord said, “I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have made a promise on oath to David, my servant: 
‘I will give you an eternal dynasty and establish your throne throughout future generations.’” (Selah)
O Lord, the heavens praise your amazing deeds, as well as your faithfulness in the angelic assembly. 
For who in the skies can compare to the Lord? Who is like the Lord among the heavenly beings, 
a God who is honored in the great angelic assembly, and more awesome than all who surround him?
O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies! Who is strong like you, O Lord? Your faithfulness surrounds you.
You rule over the proud sea. When its waves surge, you calm them.
You crushed the Proud One and killed it; with your strong arm you scattered your enemies. 
The heavens belong to you, as does the earth. You made the world and all it contains. 
You created the north and the south. Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name. 
Your arm is powerful, your hand strong, your right hand victorious. 
Equity and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loyal love and faithfulness characterize your rule. 
How blessed are the people who worship you! O Lord, they experience your favor. 
They rejoice in your name all day long, and are vindicated by your justice. 
For you give them splendor and strength. By your favor we are victorious. 
For our shield belongs to the Lord, our king to the Holy One of Israel. 
Then you spoke through a vision to your faithful followers and said: “I have placed a young hero over a warrior; I have raised up a young man from the people. 
I have discovered David, my servant. With my holy oil I have anointed him as king.
My hand will support him, and my arm will strengthen him.
No enemy will be able to exact tribute from him; a violent oppressor will not be able to humiliate him.
I will crush his enemies before him; I will strike down those who hate him.
He will experience my faithfulness and loyal love, and by my name he will win victories. 
I will place his hand over the sea, his right hand over the rivers. 
He will call out to me, ‘You are my father, my God, and the protector who delivers me.’
I will appoint him to be my firstborn son, the most exalted of the earth’s kings. 
I will always extend my loyal love to him, and my covenant with him is secure. 
I will give him an eternal dynasty and make his throne as enduring as the skies above.
If his sons reject my law and disobey my regulations, 
if they break my rules and do not keep my commandments, 
I will punish their rebellion by beating them with a club, their sin by inflicting them with bruises. 
But I will not remove my loyal love from him nor be unfaithful to my promise. 
I will not break my covenant or go back on what I promised. 
Once and for all I have vowed by my own holiness, I will never deceive David. 
His dynasty will last forever. His throne will endure before me, like the sun; 
it will remain stable, like the moon. His throne will endure like the skies.” (Selah)
But you have spurned and rejected him; you are angry with your chosen king. 
You have repudiated your covenant with your servant; you have thrown his crown to the ground. 
You have broken down all his walls; you have made his strongholds a heap of ruins.
All who pass by have robbed him; he has become an object of disdain to his neighbors. 
You have allowed his adversaries to be victorious and all his enemies to rejoice. 
You turn back his sword from the adversary and have not sustained him in battle. 
You have brought to an end his splendor and have knocked his throne to the ground. 
You have cut short his youth and have covered him with shame. (Selah)
How long, O Lord, will this last? Will you remain hidden forever? Will your anger continue to burn like fire? 
Take note of my brief lifespan. Why do you make all people so mortal? 
No man can live on without experiencing death or deliver his life from the power of Sheol. (Selah)
Where are your earlier faithful deeds, O Lord, the ones performed in accordance with your reliable oath to David? 
Take note, O Lord, of the way your servants are taunted and of how I must bear so many insults from people. 
Your enemies, O Lord, hurl insults; they insult your chosen king as they dog his footsteps.
 The Lord deserves praise forevermore! We agree! We agree! 