In you, O Lord, I have taken shelter. Never let me be humiliated. 
Vindicate me by rescuing me. Listen to me. Deliver me.
Be my protector and refuge, a stronghold where I can be safe. For you are my high ridge and my stronghold. 
My God, rescue me from the power of the wicked, from the hand of the cruel oppressor. 
For you are my hope; O Sovereign Lord, I have trusted in you since I was young. 
I have leaned on you since birth; you pulled me from my mother’s womb. I praise you continually. 
Many are appalled when they see me, but you are my secure shelter. 
I praise you constantly and speak of your splendor all day long.
Do not reject me in my old age. When my strength fails, do not abandon me.
For my enemies talk about me; those waiting for a chance to kill me plot my demise.
They say, “God has abandoned him. Run and seize him, for there is no one who will rescue him.”
O God, do not remain far away from me. My God, hurry and help me.
May my accusers be humiliated and defeated. May those who want to harm me be covered with scorn and disgrace. 
As for me, I will wait continually, and will continue to praise you.
I will tell about your justice, and all day long proclaim your salvation, though I cannot fathom its full extent. 
I will come and tell about the mighty acts of the Sovereign Lord. I will proclaim your justice—yours alone. 
O God, you have taught me since I was young, and I am still declaring your amazing deeds.
Even when I am old and gray, O God, do not abandon me, until I tell the next generation about your strength and those coming after me about your power. 
Your justice, O God, extends to the skies above; you have done great things. O God, who can compare to you?
Though you have allowed me to experience much trouble and distress, revive me once again. Bring me up once again from the depths of the earth. 
Raise me to a position of great honor. Turn and comfort me.
I will express my thanks to you with a stringed instrument, praising your faithfulness, O my God. I will sing praises to you accompanied by a harp, O Holy One of Israel. 
My lips will shout for joy. Yes, I will sing your praises. I will praise you when you rescue me.
All day long my tongue will also tell about your justice, for those who want to harm me will be embarrassed and ashamed. 