A psalm by Asaph. El, God, the Lord has spoken, and summoned the earth to come from the east and west.
From Zion, the most beautiful of all places, God has come in splendor. 
“May our God come and not be silent.” Consuming fire goes ahead of him, and all around him a storm rages.
He summons the heavens above, as well as the earth, so that he might judge his people. 
He says: “Assemble my covenant people before me, those who ratified a covenant with me by sacrifice.” 
The heavens declare his fairness, for God is judge. (Selah)
He says: “Listen, my people. I am speaking! Listen, Israel. I am accusing you. I am God, your God! 
I am not condemning you because of your sacrifices, or because of your burnt sacrifices that you continually offer me.
I do not need to take a bull from your household or goats from your sheepfolds. 
For every wild animal in the forest belongs to me, as well as the cattle that graze on a thousand hills. 
I keep track of every bird in the hills, and the insects of the field are mine. 
Even if I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and all it contains belong to me.
Do I eat the flesh of bulls? Do I drink the blood of goats? 
Present to God a thank offering. Repay your vows to the Most High.
Pray to me when you are in trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me.”
God says this to the evildoer: “How can you declare my commands, and talk about my covenant? 
For you hate instruction and reject my words. 
When you see a thief, you join him; you associate with men who are unfaithful to their wives. 
You do damage with words, and use your tongue to deceive. 
You plot against your brother; you slander your own brother. 
When you did these things, I was silent, so you thought I was exactly like you. But now I will condemn you and state my case against you.
Carefully consider this, you who reject God. Otherwise I will rip you to shreds and no one will be able to rescue you.
Whoever presents a thank offering honors me. To whoever obeys my commands, I will reveal my power to deliver.” 