This is an oracle about Nineveh; the book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite: 
The Lord is a zealous and avenging God; the Lord is avenging and very angry. The Lord takes vengeance against his foes; he sustains his rage against his enemies. 
The Lord is slow to anger but great in power; the Lord will certainly not allow the wicked to go unpunished. He marches out in the whirlwind and the raging storm; dark storm clouds billow like dust under his feet. 
He shouts a battle cry against the sea and makes it dry up; he makes all the rivers run dry. Bashan and Carmel wither; the blossom of Lebanon withers. 
The mountains tremble before him; the hills convulse; the earth is laid waste before him; the world and all its inhabitants are laid waste.
No one can withstand his indignation! No one can resist his fierce anger! His wrath is poured out like volcanic fire, boulders are broken up as he approaches. 
The Lord is good— indeed, he is a fortress in time of distress, and he protects those who seek refuge in him.
But with an overwhelming flood he will make a complete end of Nineveh; he will drive his enemies into darkness. 
Whatever you plot against the Lord, he will completely destroy! Distress will not arise a second time. 
Surely they will be totally consumed like entangled thornbushes, like the drink of drunkards, like very dry stubble. 
From you, O Nineveh, one has marched forth who plots evil against the Lord, a wicked military strategist.
This is what the Lord says: “Even though they are powerful— and what is more, even though their army is numerous— nevertheless, they will be destroyed and trickle away! Although I afflicted you, I will afflict you no more. 
And now, I will break Assyria’s yoke bar from your neck; I will tear apart the shackles that are on you.”
The Lord has issued a decree against you: “Your dynasty will come to an end. I will destroy the idols and images in the temples of your gods. I will desecrate your grave, because you are accursed!” 
(2:1) Look! A herald is running on the mountains! A messenger is proclaiming deliverance: “Celebrate your sacred festivals, O Judah! Fulfill your sacred vows to praise God! For never again will the wicked Assyrians invade you; they have been completely destroyed.” 