Now after the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. 
Suddenly there was a severe earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descending from heaven came and rolled away the stone and sat on it. 
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. 
The guards were shaken and became like dead men because they were so afraid of him. 
But the angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid; I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. 
He is not here, for he has been raised, just as he said. Come and see the place where he was lying. 
Then go quickly and tell his disciples, ‘He has been raised from the dead. He is going ahead of you into Galilee. You will see him there.’ Listen, I have told you!” 
So they left the tomb quickly, with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. 
But Jesus met them, saying, “Greetings!” They came to him, held on to his feet and worshiped him. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. They will see me there.” 
While they were going, some of the guards went into the city and told the chief priests everything that had happened. 
After they had assembled with the elders and formed a plan, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, 
telling them, “You are to say, ‘His disciples came at night and stole his body while we were asleep.’ 
If this matter is heard before the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.” 
So they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this story is told among the Jews to this day. 
So the 11 disciples went to Galilee to the mountain Jesus had designated. 
When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. 
Then Jesus came up and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, 
teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age.” 