The Sovereign Lord showed me this: I saw him making locusts just as the crops planted late were beginning to sprout. (The crops planted late sprout after the royal harvest.) 
When they had completely consumed the earth’s vegetation, I said, “Sovereign Lord, forgive Israel! How can Jacob survive? He is too weak!” 
The Lord decided not to do this. “It will not happen,” the Lord said. 
The Sovereign Lord showed me this: I saw the Sovereign Lord summoning a shower of fire. It consumed the great deep and devoured the fields. 
I said, “Sovereign Lord, stop! How can Jacob survive? He is too weak!” 
The Lord decided not to do this. The Sovereign Lord said, “This will not happen either.” 
He showed me this: I saw the Lord standing by a tin wall holding tin in his hand. 
The Lord said to me, “What do you see, Amos?” I said, “Tin.” The Lord then said, “Look, I am about to place tin among my people Israel. I will no longer overlook their sin.
Isaac’s centers of worship will become desolate; Israel’s holy places will be in ruins. I will attack Jeroboam’s dynasty with the sword.” 
Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent this message to King Jeroboam of Israel: “Amos is conspiring against you in the very heart of the kingdom of Israel! The land cannot endure all his prophecies. 
As a matter of fact, Amos is saying this: ‘Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel will certainly be carried into exile away from its land.’” 
Amaziah then said to Amos, “Leave, you visionary! Run away to the land of Judah. Earn your living and prophesy there! 
Don’t prophesy at Bethel any longer, for a royal temple and palace are here.”
Amos replied to Amaziah, “I was not a prophet by profession. No, I was a herdsman who also took care of sycamore fig trees. 
Then the Lord took me from tending flocks and gave me this commission, ‘Go! Prophesy to my people Israel.’ 
So now listen to the Lord’s message! You say, ‘Don’t prophesy against Israel! Don’t preach against the family of Isaac!’ 
“Therefore this is what the Lord says: ‘Your wife will become a prostitute in the streets, and your sons and daughters will die violently. Your land will be given to others, and you will die in a foreign land. Israel will certainly be carried into exile away from its land.’” 