This is what the Lord says: “Because Moab has committed three crimes— make that four—I will not revoke my decree of judgment. They burned the bones of Edom’s king into lime. 
So I will set Moab on fire, and it will consume Kerioth’s fortresses. Moab will perish in the heat of battle amid war cries and the blaring of the ram’s horn. 
I will remove Moab’s leader; I will kill all Moab’s officials with him.” The Lord has spoken!
This is what the Lord says: “Because Judah has committed three covenant transgressions— make that four—I will not revoke my decree of judgment. They rejected the Lord’s law; they did not obey his commands. Their false gods, to which their fathers were loyal, led them astray. 
So I will set Judah on fire, and it will consume Jerusalem’s fortresses.” 
This is what the Lord says: “Because Israel has committed three covenant transgressions— make that four—I will not revoke my decree of judgment. They sold the innocent for silver, the needy for a pair of sandals. 
They trample on the dirt-covered heads of the poor; they push the destitute away. A man and his father go to the same girl; in this way they show disrespect for my moral purity.
They stretch out on clothing seized as collateral; they do so right beside every altar! They drink wine bought with the fines they have levied; they do so right in the temple of their God! 
For Israel’s sake I destroyed the Amorites. They were as tall as cedars and as strong as oaks, but I destroyed the fruit on their branches and their roots in the ground. 
I brought you up from the land of Egypt; I led you through the wilderness for 40 years so you could take the Amorites’ land as your own.
I made some of your sons prophets and some of your young men Nazirites. Is this not true, you Israelites?” The Lord is speaking. 
“But you made the Nazirites drink wine; you commanded the prophets, ‘Do not prophesy!’ 
Look! I will press you down, like a cart loaded down with grain presses down. 
Fast runners will find no place to hide; strong men will have no strength left; warriors will not be able to save their lives. 
Archers will not hold their ground; fast runners will not save their lives, nor will those who ride horses. 
Bravehearted warriors will run away naked in that day.” The Lord is speaking. 