Listen, you Israelites, to this message that the Lord is proclaiming against you! This message is for the entire clan I brought up from the land of Egypt: 
“I have chosen you alone from all the clans of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your sins.” 
Do two walk together without having met? 
Does a lion roar in the woods if he has not cornered his prey? Does a young lion bellow from his den if he has not caught something?
Does a bird swoop down into a trap on the ground if there is no bait? Does a trap spring up from the ground unless it has surely caught something? 
If an alarm sounds in a city, do people not fear? If disaster overtakes a city, is the Lord not responsible? 
Certainly the Sovereign Lord does nothing without first revealing his plan to his servants the prophets. 
A lion has roared! Who is not afraid? The Sovereign Lord has spoken. Who can refuse to prophesy? 
Make this announcement in the fortresses of Ashdod and in the fortresses in the land of Egypt. Say this: “Gather on the hills around Samaria! Observe the many acts of violence taking place within the city, the oppressive deeds occurring in it.”
“They do not know how to do what is right,” the Lord says. “They store up the spoils of destructive violence in their fortresses. 
Therefore,” says the Sovereign Lord, “an enemy will encircle the land. He will take away your power; your fortresses will be looted.” 
This is what the Lord says: “Just as a shepherd salvages from the lion’s mouth a couple of leg bones or a piece of an ear, so the Israelites who live in Samaria will be salvaged. They will be left with just a corner of a bed, and a part of a couch. 
Listen and warn the family of Jacob!” The Sovereign Lord, the God who commands armies, is speaking! 
“Certainly when I punish Israel for their covenant transgressions, I will destroy Bethel’s altars. The horns of the altar will be cut off and fall to the ground. 
I will destroy both the winter and summer houses. The houses filled with ivory will be ruined; the great houses will be swept away.” The Lord is speaking! 