Brothers and sisters, if a person is discovered in some sin, you who are spiritual restore such a person in a spirit of gentleness. Pay close attention to yourselves, so that you are not tempted too. 
Carry one another’s burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. 
For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. 
Let each one examine his own work. Then he can take pride in himself and not compare himself with someone else. 
For each one will carry his own load. 
Now the one who receives instruction in the word must share all good things with the one who teaches it.
Do not be deceived. God will not be made a fool. For a person will reap what he sows, 
because the person who sows to his own flesh will reap corruption from the flesh, but the one who sows to the Spirit will reap eternal life from the Spirit. 
So we must not grow weary in doing good, for in due time we will reap, if we do not give up. 
So then, whenever we have an opportunity, let us do good to all people, and especially to those who belong to the family of faith. 
See what big letters I make as I write to you with my own hand! 
Those who want to make a good showing in external matters are trying to force you to be circumcised. They do so only to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Christ. 
For those who are circumcised do not obey the law themselves, but they want you to be circumcised so that they can boast about your flesh. 
But may I never boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. 
For neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything; the only thing that matters is a new creation! 
And all who will behave in accordance with this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on the Israel of God. 
From now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear the marks of Jesus on my body. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers and sisters. Amen. 